Dreckig OS
v0.007.5

User Manual

Copywrite 2011-2014 Dr Sean Haas


--The Basics--

-User accounts-
When Dreckig OS boots up it will promt you to log in. As far as Dreckig OS is concerned users come in two types, super-users
(group id 0) and unprivleged users (every other gruid id). The default super-user account uses user name 'root' and the 
password 'root'. Super-users have access to all files on the disk and more programs than other users. Unpriveleged users can 
use the 'asr' command to run programms as root.
	 
-Files- 
Each user group has their own home directory containing all there files. Users from one group cannot access other group's 
files. Super-users can access any file on the disk. When you are a super user file paths are like this:
       username:filename
Where username is the name of the user and filename is the name of the file. Another useful feature of Dreckig OS is the crypt
encryptio manager, with it you can encrypt entire file systems, see the command listing for details.

--The Command Line--

The command line in Dreckig OS is a mixture of native command, Lang commands, and Brainfuck code (yes, really). 
Native commands are built into the kernel, it only takes one word, their name, to invoke them. Further input is given 
interactively. Lang commands are, in simple terms, more than one word. They are more intended to serve as a job control and 
simple UI language for scripting and the like. Brainfuck code can also be entered at the command line. This is mainly just as
a demo of the MVM virtual machine architecture built into Dreckig OS, the code is compiled and run on multiple co-operatively
multi-tasking virtual machines.

--Command Listing--

-help-	
	Lists commands and a short synopsis of their purpose.
-re-
	Reboots the computer, really more of a soft-boot.
-info-
	Shows system version, copyright information and CPU type.
-clear-
	Clears the screen.
-log-
	Secure system locking mechanism. Once locked through log the computer is can only be unlocked by being unplugged or
	entering the correct password. The password for log is only stored in memory while the system is locked. 
	Additional prompts:
		   PASS> 
		   	 First time, enter the password you want to use.
		   PASS>
			 Second time, this means the system is locked. Enter the password you used to unlock it.
-bf-
	Run a file of Breinfuck code. 
	Additional prompts:
		   file>
			Name of source code file.
	bf is also a command in Lang.
-hist-
	Show the most recent commands entered.
-lo-
	Log out. Can also use the command quit to the same effect.
-dte-
	The Dreckig Text Editor.
	Additional prompts:
		   FILE>
			Name of the file to edit. If the file does not exist it will be created.
		   LINE>
			Here either enter the line numebr in the file which you want to rewrite, or a command.
			't' retypes the file, 'q' quits without saving, and 'w' writes the file and quits.
-crypt-
	Encryption system manager. Can be either turned off or turned on to allow for full disk encryption and stenography.
	Additional prompts:
		  crypt>
			Enter crypt commands here, valid commands:
			on - trun encryption layer for files on.
			off - turn layer off.
			init - initialize a CryptFS disk *WARNING* wipes all data.
-dump-
	Show contents of memory on screen. Only accessable by super users.
	Additional prompts:
		   Bottom> 
		   	   Starting adress of memory to dump (in decimal).
-regs-
	Show contents of proccessor registers.
-ps-
	List proccesses, shows proccess ID and it's location in RAM. Only for super-users.
-kill-
	Kill a proccess. Only for super users.
	Additional prompts:
		   PID>
			ID of proccess to kill.
			It is illadvised to kill proccess 0, as this will render the system useless.	
-user-
	Manage user accounts. Only for super-users.
	Additional prompts:
		   USER>
			Enter user commands here. Valid commands include:
			      list - list all users, a hash of their password, and their user group ID.
			      add - make a new user account. Prompts for:
			      	  UserName>
					Name for new user.
				  Password>
					Password for the new user.
				  Group>
					Group ID for new user.
			      kill - Remove user account. Prompts for:
			      	   UserName> 
				   	Name of the unlucky user.
			      init - Write default user file to disk with only root account.
-hash-
	Low level file manager for HashFS. Super-users only.
	Additional prompts:
		   hashfs>
			Enter hash commsnds here. Valid commands:
			      get - Read in a file. Prompts for:
			      	  name>
					File name.
			      put - Write to a file on disk. Prompts for:
			      	  name>
					File name.
				  >
					Data to write to file.
			      kill - De;ete file contents. Prompts for:
			      	  name> 
				   	 File name.
-chr-
	Change root directory to the home directory of another user. For super-users only.
	Additional prompts:
		   New root>
		       User name of the owner of the home directory to switch to.
-asr-
	Run a command as root. Technically a Lang command. Available to all users.
	Syntax:
		asr cms
		    Runs cmd as if you were a super-user.
	Additional prompts:
		Password>
		    Enter the password for the user root here (defaults is 'root').

--Lang commands--

--Brainfuck--

